# 2018-09-06 Intro

Dr. Sorouja Moll

Course aims to develop critical thinking skills

Understand that conflicts happen and are not necessarily a bad thing  
Move valuing out of it; ask the question _why_

Read course outline on LEARN often

__Notes to course__
* LEARN
* Novel and graphic novel (see next section)
* Class structure
	* Glossary Review/Discussion
	* 5 Pop Quizzes, lowest dropped
	* Presentations
	* Activity / Reading analysis / Media
	* Participation

<hr>

## [The curious incident of the dog in the night](https://www.chapters.indigo.ca/en-ca/books/the-curious-incident-of-the/9780385659802-item.html?ikwid=The+Curious+Incident+Of+The+Dog+In+The+Night-Time&ikwsec=Home&ikwidx=0)

Haden doesn't label the boy except with his experiences

## [The sugar falls](https://www.chapters.indigo.ca/en-ca/books/sugar-falls-a-residential-school/9781553793342-item.html?ikwid=sugar+falls&ikwsec=Home&ikwidx=0)

See UW bookstore

<hr>

## Learn

Articles to read are found in [Course Reserves](https://www.reserves.uwaterloo.ca/ares/ares.dll?Action=10&Form=60&Value=15662)

__HW:__ Go through course syllabus and circle things you don't understand.

__HW:__ IPC_Glossary_W1_W2-2-1 | Under Week 1 (and/or Week 2), pick three words and write a paragraph about your experiences with them  
Use first person, and be very specific. Where were you? Who was it with? Be extremely specific.  
It's good to keep a catalogue of your glossaries, so that you can use them when writing your journals.  
Don't use 'in society today'. Instead, write about a particular scenario that you were in. Don't use 'we', 'our', '_the_ indigenous people' because these are all terms that generalize.  

Instead of _the_ Indigenous People, use Indigenous People. The _the_ objectifies them. Using _our_ exhibits ownership.

If you use:
* first person
* specifics
* proper use of terms,

you will get three checkmarks.

<hr>

## Journals

Every week, readings will be assigned. You may reference those articles.  

__Set A__ | Midterm
* 1 Feedback
	* 500wd | Observation "I see"
		* Describe what you see in your partner, relational dynamic
	* 500wd | Reflection "I feel"
		* Reflect on what you observed made you feel
* 2 Prompt (probably something to do with the talk you've seen)
	* ?

__Set B__ | Last day
* 1 Reflection feedback (think about the feedback from your peer)  
How have we/I changed (or not)
	* O & R, same format as Set A
* 2 Open

__HW:__ See course outline for readings; there's one for Week 1/2