## Administravia

## Recap

Documentation is not a component of the design recipe.  

Is the following a good purpose statement?
```
;; Purpose:
;; (water-consumption time plants) produces the
;; overall water consumption of a green house.
```
No, you could improve on:
- arguments are kind of vague; would be helpful 
- units of time?

## Boolean variables

Example application of two boolean variables `x` and `y`:
```
(== x y)
```
The above is equivalent to determining whether the mathematical proposition 
$x=y$ is true or false.  

Standard Racket uses `#t` and `#true` where we use `true`  

### Other types of comparisons

```
(< x y)
(>= x y)
```

Sample contract:
```
;; = : Num Num -> Bool
```

### Complex relationships

Racket provides keywords `and` `or` and `not`  

DrRacket only evaluates as many arguments of `and` and `or` as is necessary to 
determine the value.  
i.e. a single `false` in `and` is conclusive, and a single `true` in `or` is 
also conclusive.  

## Predicates

A __predicate__ is a function that produces a Boolean result.  
Built-in predicates include `even?` `negative?` and `zero?`  

We can write our own predicates too.
```
(define (between? ow high numb)
	(and (< low numb) (< numb high)))
```

## Symbols

Symbols can be compared using the function `symbol=?`  
```
(define my-symbol 'blue)
(symbol=? my-symbol 'red) => false
```

## Conditional expressions

- conditional expressions use the special form `cond`
- each argument is a question/answer pair
- the question is a boolean expression

```
(cond [question1 answer1]
[question2 answer2]
[questionk answerk])
```
Where question k could be else. Once one of these questions are true, the 
corresponding answer is evaluated.  

Square brackets used by convention for readability.  



$\sqrt(-1) mod pq = \sqrt(-1) mod p = \sqrt(-1) mod q$
two smallest are 5 and 13, which means, necessarily, 5*13=65 exists