## Administravia

<hr>

## Scope in Racket

Smallest enclosing scope has priority.  
Can't duplicate identifiers.  

```
(define x 3)
(define (g a b) (+ a b x))
```

The scope of `x` is the entire program in this case.  

```
(define x 3)
(define (g a b) (+ a b x))
(define (f x y) (-x y))
```

Since the `x` found in `(f x y)` is the smallest enclosing scope, it has the
higher priority.  

However, you still __cannot__ duplicate identifiers __within the same scope__.  

To check scope in DrRacket, click `Check Syntax` and hover over identifiers.  

## The Design Recipe

__Readings:__ HtDP sections 1-5, style and survival guide

Every program is an act of communication,  
- between you and the computer
- between you and your future self
- between you and others

Comments in Racket programs start with `;;` until EOL.  

### The five design recipe components

1. __Purpose:__ describes what the function is to compute
2. __Contract:__ describes what type of arguments the function consumes and what type of value it produces
3. __Examples:__ illustrates the typical use of the function
4. __Def'n:__ the Racket def'n of the function (header and body)
5. __Tests:__ a representative set of function applications and their expected values

### Order of execution

1. Write draft of purpose
2. Write examples (by hand then by code)
3. Write def'n header and contract
4. Finalize purpose with parameter names
5. Write def'n body
6. Write tests

### Example

__Header and contract__
```
;; sum-of-squares: Num Num -> Num
(define (sum-of-squares n1 n2) ...)
```

__Function body__
```
(define (sum-of-squares n1 n2)
	(+ (sqr n1) (sqr n2)))
```

__Write tests__
```
;; Tests:
(check-expect (sum-of-squares 0 0) 0)
(check-expect (sum-of-squares -2 7) something)
```

Tests should be written after the code body.  
Tests don't need to be "big." In fact, they should be small and directed.  

__Contracts__  
`Num`: any Racket numeric value  
`Int`: restriction to integers  
`Nat`: restriction to natural numbers  
`Any`: any Racket value  

We will see more types soon.