## Administrivia

A0 due today.  
A0 must be completed before A1.  

<hr>

## Notes

__Canonical form:__ Easier for us to think about.  
When we extend this idea to programming, we'll find cases where orderings result in different values.  

__Two rules:__  
- Functions are applied to values
- When there is a choice of possible substitutions, always take the leftmost choice.

$$
\begin{aligned}
	g(g(1,3), f(3))\\
	&= g (1+3, f(3)) \\
	&= g(4, f(3))\\
	&= g(4, 3^2)\\
	&= g(4, 9) = 4+9 \\
\end{aligned}
$$

Now (using those two rules), for any expression, there is at most one choice of substitution.  
The computed final result is the same as for other choices.

## Use of parentheses

### Ordering

In arithmetic expressions, we often place operators between their operands.  
We have some rules (e.g. division before addition, left to right) to specify order of operations. This are our canonical rules.  
Sometimes, rules are not sufficient, and parentheses are required.  

### Functions

We treat infix operators (+, -, etc) like functions; we don't need parentheses to specify order of operations.  
Also known as _Polish notation_.

For example, $(6-4)/(5+7)$ becomes $/(-(6,4), +(5,7))$.

Racket writes its functions differently: the function name moves inside the parentheses, and the commas are changed to spaces.  
For example, $g(2, 3)$ becomes `(g 2 3)`. This is a valid Racket expression once `g` is defined.  
Functions and mathematical operations are treated exactly the same way in Racket.  

## Racket expressions

### Expressions in Racket

Extra parentheses are harmless in arithmetic expressions.  
However, these are __harmful__ in Racket expressions.

5 + 3 * (10 - 5)
(+ 5 (* 3 (- 10 5)))

### Evaluating a Racket expression

We use a process of substitution, just as in our mathematical expressions.  
Each step is indicated using the 'yields' symbol $\implies$.

```
(* (- 6 4) (+ 3 2))
=> (* 2 (+ 3 2))
...
```

## DrRacket

### Numbers in DrRacket

- Integers are unbounded
- Rational numbers are represented exactly
- Expressions whose values are not rational numbers are flagged as being `inexact`  
	- For example `(sqrt 2)` evaluates to `#i1.414213562370951`
	- We will not use inexact numbers much (if at all)

### Built-in operators
- Arithmetic operators `+ - * /`
- Constants `e pi`
- Functions `(abs x), (max x y ...), (ceiling x), (expt x y), (exp x), (cos x),` ...

Assignment will tell you which functions you can/should and cannot use.  
Questions on implementation should go to tutor first, or Help Desk.

### Expressions causing errors

`(* (5) 3)` contains an unnecessary set of parentheses.

### Defining functions

$g(x, y) = x + y$  
`(define (g x y) (+ x y))`  

`define` is a _special form_ - looks like a Racket function, but not all of its arguments are evaluated.

Internally, Racket applies a substitution for user-defined functions.  
The substitution for `(g 3 5)` would be `(+ 3 5)`.  

Each parameter name has meaning _only within the body of its function_.  
Functions cannot have the same name.  

### Defining constants

`(define k 3)`  
`(define p (sqr k))`  
Assume that constants are evaluated top to bottom.  