# Week 1 and 2 Glossary

<!-- __Co-Culture__  


__Noise__  
- Psychological noise
	- external factors, other things going on, conflicting emotions/interest
- Taking outside issues home is never a good thing
- Becoming appreciative of family
- Work-life balance very important

- Relationship as well

- 

## Noise
_Anything that interferes with the transmission and reception of a message such as external noise, physiological noise, and psychological noise._

In the first months of eleventh grade, my mother and I began having arguments over little things - insignificant issues such as where I'd place my school bag after coming home, when I did the dishes, and what I'd spend my spare time doing. Just as the slightest thing would launch her into an argument with me, 

__Prejudice__
- Oswald
- Other parents were spreading rumours and lies
- Empathy
- Looking at different perspectives
- Then again, in the interest of their own family friends and peers, they only wished for the safety of them -->

## Prejudice

On April 26th, 2018, my high school held its annual Spring Music Night. I was relieved that my performance was over. Though, little did I know that one of my closer friends took their own life in the school's library that same night. Students, staff, and the entire community were devastated by the loss.

A week later, rumours started spreading about the incident, primarily among the parents of students all across the Toronto District School Board. Before I continue, some background would be helpful to understand the situation. His name was Oswald. Both him and I were in the International Baccalaureate (IB) program, which is notorious for its heavy workload. Oswald was on the spectrum for autism. However, Oswald was, in my eyes and many others', a genius. He achieved stellar grades in class effortlessly. He started his own electronics repair shop, and already had more than enough money to support himself, being only 17 at the time.

We were closer of friends. We shared many interests, most of which were computer related. We loved mechanical keyboards. We looked up to Louis Rossman. We hated Apple. We were ThinkPad fanboys. Not many know this, but Oswald was on meds since the 7th grade to regulate his emotions. Recently, he had stopped taking them, and his appointments with his psychologist were becoming less helpful.

There were many rumours that were spreading, followed by warnings to other parents and students. A couple of the most prevalent were the claim that the workload of IB was too much to handle and the pressure is what broke him, and that Oswald's parents had conflicts with him. Both of these claims were unfounded, and I became extremely angry at the group of parents starting and spreading these rumours. How could people know absolutely nothing about an incident and present speculation as fact? My response was one of disgust, and I immediately developed prejudice toward these parents for being ignorant, uncritical, and harmful.

I believed (and still believe) that it was wrong to spread such rumours, but after I calmed down and set my strong emotions aside, I was able to look past my prejudice to understand where these parents were coming from. When an incident such as a suicide occurs, it's scary to say the least. There are too few answers trying to respond to too many questions. Most parents want to keep their loved ones safe, and so they do what they can to ensure that by warning others about the reasons, such as a heavy workload and abundant stress, that may have led to the unfortunate outcome. This is what I was able to deduce without my thought process being clouded by emotion and prejudice.

<!-- __Individualistic Culture__  
- High school, IB
- Play it off as an individualistic group

- Individualism carried on to university, where I wouldn't seek help nor give it to peers despite my advanced maths class being difficult. -->

## Individualistic Culture

Individualism has been present throughout my high school career, especially in the IB program. This specialized program is competitive and requires a lot of work to be put into it, hence the individualistic culture it fosters. Most students are independent when it comes to course work, and our high school teachers seldom have an equivalent to the "office hours" in university. Personally, as university started, I was still accustomed to this individualistic culture, and turned down any help from peers, professors, and ISAs despite my advanced math courses being challenging, believing that I would learn better if I worked on problems independently. I have since changed my view on assignments, since I have fallen slightly behind in MATH 145 after our first assignment A1, as a result of my attempted self-reliance. I have come to accept that struggle and help is necessary, and that I should go to office hours whenever I can.

<!-- __Reference Groups__
- Mother raised me surrounded by people who were "better than me" and I figured that I must have been subpar in my capabilities and characteristics in comparison to my peers. I soon realized that it was because she (and other parents) always picked the best characteristics out of others and compared it to their own kids.
- Indian parents always talk up their kids (or so I heard since I was around a lot of those in high school)
- Chinese parents largely compare how much worse their kids are, and compliment other kids
- Ultimate, those in my class, co-workers
- Select best characteristics in reference groups to develop myself
- Always comparing myself to those who can do better -->

## Reference Groups

My mother raised me under the impression that all of my peers were _better than me_. This was because whenever she was with other parents, she praised and complimented their children while comparing them to my shortcomings. I figured that I must have been subpar in my capabilities and characteristics, so I strove to better myself. I have a vivid memory of my mother scolding me for sleeping so late and being so slow to brush my teeth. This was in conversation with Ashley's mom, a family friend of ours. My mom also commented on how Ashley slept early, and how I should be more like her. I do not remember how old I was, but I was young. As I got older, I eventually realized that in my reference group of my peers, they were in fact better than me, but in differing aspects. I realized that my mother didn't put me down to embarrass me, but rather to help identify role models I should learn from.

Now that many years have passed and I find myself older and wiser (or so I'd like to think), I have naturally found different reference groups for different characteristics of mine. I never found myself intentionally seeking out these reference groups - I suppose I subconsciously sought them out because of the influence from my mother. When it comes to my academic abilities, I compare myself to the strongest students in my classes. For industry skills, I always look up to those working internships at successful companies (such as Jason, a friend of mine who just completed an internship at Google). When it comes to evaluating my athleticism, I look to those I know in the ultimate community. I had a recent experience with this reference group. I started playing ultimate fribsee in the summer after 9th grade, and really enjoyed playing it. So, I would spend time tossing a disc around whenever I could, and eventually worked my way up to a line captain on our high school ultimate team. When I first stepped foot on campus here at U Waterloo, I had to try out for their ultimate team. However, at the first tryout, I knew the team was way out of my league based on the calibre of athletes trying out. These were people playing in elite clubs every year (such as Toro, Toronto's top junior elites team). I had little to show for compared to them. Regardless, I pushed hard at all three tryouts and tried to match the athleticism of the students there. Am I disappointed I didn't make the team? Not particularly, since now I have more time to focus on my academics and relationships. Do I regret attending tryouts? Absolutely not. Sure, it was intimidating, but now I have higher goals and standards to reach for cardio, strength, and just athleticism in general. 