# Week 4 Glossary - Emotions
_Simon Liu (TO) | 20765498 | 2018-09-27_

__Emotional contagion__

There's this song I listen to called "u just can't be replaced" by gnash. In this song, there's a spoken verse that describes emotional contagion. The following are lyrics off Genius.

<pre>
[Spoken: gnash & (Rosabeales)]
You know what my dad always says? (What does he always say?)
That love is when all your happiness and all your sadness
And all your feelings are dependent upon another person (Uh huh)
So I guess I love you (Haha)
</pre>

I could relate to these lyrics. I find that my feelings are very dependent on my significant other's, and vice versa. Her name is Gillian, and I say significant other because, well, it's complicated.  

When Gillian is in a bad mood, I find that my emotions follow suit because of emotional contagion. Last night, she told me about the massive mosquito bites from evening Ultimate practice. I shared the irritation and discomfort she felt.  

Furthermore, I find it easy to go great lengths to make her happy, because I find it makes me happy to see her happy. For the last few weeks, I have been biking half an hour to pick up her favorite bubble tea (Taro milk tea, less ice, less sugar, with tapioca pearls) and then to make it to her practice field on time to walk her back home with a cold, sweet drink. I'll admit I feel sore in the next morning, but it's all worth it because of the emotional contagion I have with her.

__Fallacy of Approval__

I really dislike having conflicts with the people I meet. Usually, I found that conflicts stemmed from differing opinions and personalities. As a result, when I was younger, I would change my personality around differing people to be more similar to them as a means of garnering approval.

Looking back, this was unhealthy and often made it confusing as to what my actual personality and values were. In high school, I had a very strict and almost harsh music teacher. She would berate her students for being late for rehearsal, and when they prioritized other extracurricular activities over hers. To gain her approval was very rare, and I took pride in the fact that I could. However, I was committing myself to music when I would rather spend my time elsewhere. I had fallen victim to Fallacy of Approval.

Now, when my opinions and values differ from another's, I understand that this is okay, and we can still respect and interact with one another without approval.

<br>

__Rumination__

I'm particularly bad with ruminating over first impressions in over text.

In person, when I first meet somebody, the response and interactions between us two are more immediate, and I can usually gauge the situation well enough to know whether my first impression was positive, or not so much.

Two nights ago, I reached out to the Technical lead on the UW Formula Motorsports team. After sitting in on my first meeting, where the team was debriefed on the work done in the past week, I already had ideas I wanted to ask about. This past weekend, the drivers practiced rev-matching around corners. What this essentially means is that when shifting down a gear, the throttle needs to be tapped for a smoother transition, thus decreasing lap times. I figured if we could automate rev matching by programming a controller to do it, we could eliminate potential human errors.

So, I send messages to Tim, our tech lead, and wait for a response overnight. During this time, I ruminated over many things, since it was a little intimidating reaching out to a fourth year student who was a main drivers and one of the most senior on the team. I asked myself if he would find my proposal absurd and infeasible, then judge me for my lack of judgement and experience in the field. I asked myself if I was bothering him by taking up his precious time. I asked myself if he would talk about that silly 1A kid to his peers. 

All of these ruminating thoughts were, of course, irrational and uncalled for by the environment. Tim ended up welcoming me, and taking the time to explain the pros, cons, and rules surrounding electronic throttle and automatic rev-matching, and was very friendly throughout.