## Midterm

Happening on October 15 (Mon) during class  
__Next class friday at 12?__  
Content on chapters 1-6 including lecture notes

## Review questions

### Chapter 4

<hr>

_Write down the formula used to calculate the YTM on a 20-year 10% coupon with a \$1000 face value that sells for $2000_  

Coupon payment in dollar amount is 10\% of the __face value__, so \$100

$$ P = \frac{C}{(1+i)} + \frac{C}{(1+i)^2} +  \frac{C}{(1+i)^3} + ... +  \frac{C}{(1+i)^n}  +  \frac{F}{(1+i)^n} $$

$$ 2000 = \frac{100}{(1+i)} + \frac{100}{(1+i)^2} +  \frac{100}{(1+i)^3} + ... +  \frac{100}{(1+i)^{20}}  +  \frac{1000}{(1+i)^{20}} $$

Solving for $i$ gives yield to maturity.

<hr>

_Under what conditions will a discount bond have a negative nominal interest rate?_

$$ i = \frac{F-P}{P} $$

When $P$ is greater than $F$, then the yield to maturity will be negative

What about a coupon bond? Consider a one-year coupon bond.

$$ P = \frac{C}{(1+i)} + \frac{F}{(1+i)} $$

<hr>

With a discount bond, the return on the bond is equal to the rate of capital gain. True or False? Explain your answer.

Recall the equation for rate of return as two values.

$$ R = \frac{C}{P_t} + \frac{P_{t+1}-P_t}{P_t} $$

A discount bond doesn't give coupons (zero-coupon). Thus, $C/P_t$ is zero and $R = $ the second term.

Therefore, the answer is __true__.

<hr>

What is the yield to maturity on a \$1000 face value discount bond maturing in one year that sells for \$800?

$$ i = \frac{F-P}{P} $$

$$i = \frac{\$200}{\$800}$$

$$i = 25\%$$

<hr>

What is the YTM on a simple loan for \$1M that requires a repayment of \$2M in five year's time?

The present value of the 2M payent five years from now is $2/(1+i)^5$ M, which equals the 1M loan

Thus, $1 = 2/(1+i)^5$

Solving for $i$, $i=14.9\%$.

<hr>

A \$1000 face value bond has 10\% coupon rate, its current price is \$960, and the price is expected to increase to \$980 next year. Calculate the current yield, the expected rate of capital gain, and the expected rate of return.  

$$\textrm{current yield} = C/P_t$$

$$\$100/\$960 = \%10.416$$

Expected rate of capital gain

$$ g = (\$980-\$960)/\$960 $$

$$ 2.1\% $$

Expected rate of return

$$ R = 10.4 + 2.1 = 12.5 $$

<hr>

### Chapter 5

<hr>

Explain what effect a large federal deficit should have on interest rates, ceteris paribus. Use the theory discussed in class.

- large federal deficits require gov't to issue more bonds
- supply of bonds increases
- supply curve shifts right and EQ interest rate rises

<hr>

The governer of the BoC announces in a press conference that he will fight the higher inflation rate with a new anti-inflation program. Predict what will happen to interest rates if the public believes him.

- The governor's announcement will lower expected inflation so that the expected return on goods decreases relative to bonds
- The demand for bonds increases and the demand curve shifts to the right
- For a given nominal interest rate, the lower expected inflation means that the real interest rate has risen, raising the cost of borrowing so that the supply of bonds fails
- The resulting leftward shift of the supply curve and the rightward shift of the demand curve causes the equilibrium interest rate to fall

<hr>

An important way in which the BoC decreases the money supply is by selling bonds to the public. Using a supply and demand analysis for bonds, show what effect this action has on interest rates. Is your answer consistent with what you would expect to find with the liquidity preference framework?

* sell bonds to public, increases supply
* with LPF, the decrease in money supply shifts money supply curve to the left
* answer from bond supply and demand analysis is consistent with answer from the liquidity preference framework