__Midterm:__ Multiple choice and few if any short answer questions.

## Review from last lecture

__Bonds vs Stocks__  

Bond market is 10x larger than stock market in North America.

__Primary and Secondary markets__  

__Money and capital markets__  

Prime rate is interest rate charged for most trustworthy customers. This is the 
base interest rate.

## Financial intermediation

See table 2-3 in Ch1&2 lecture notes for more information.

__Chartered banks:__  
Deposits are liabilities. If you were to deposit $1 to TD, you could withdraw 
that at any time.

For Canada, a large chunk of funds are coming from financial intermediaries such 
as Chartered banks, Pension fund,s and Life insurance companies. In smaller, less
developed countries, firms will be borrowing from lenders and microcredit (money 
market). In developed countries, firms will be borrowing from capital markets.

### FI - Roles

3. Help solve __Asymmetric Information__ problems
	- Borrowers who take out loans usually have better information than that of the lender (i.e. they'll know their own ability to pay back)
		- __Adverse Selection__ (occurs before transaction occurs)
		- Potential borrowers who are more likely to default are the ones who most actively seek out loan
	- For example, take firms Safeway and Riskway.
		- Riskway is more likely to seek a loan from you
		- You would not want to loan your money out, since there is a high chance of defaulting.
		- If information is symmetric between borrower and lender, lender would identify Riskway as a high-risk borrower and would not carry out the loan
		- In real life however, you are more likely to lend to Riskway because they are more likely to apply for a loan. You don't necessarily know that Riskway is a high-risk borrower.
	- Some ways to eliminate risk:
		- Looking at human factors
		- Discrimination (illegal)
	- Borrowers might engage in activities that are undesirable from a lender's point of view
		- This is __Moral Hazard__.
		- Difficult for FI's to fix this, since money has already been given out
		- Once you have loaned out your assets, Safeway would use your assets in safe investments, whereas Riskway would do the opposite.
	- From an insurance company's point of view, deductibles would decrease the risk of moral hazard
		- You have to pay the first $500 for your car insurance before insurance companies step in

## Financial innovation

__Innovation__ in financial markets is the development of new financial products and services.  
__E-finance__ delivers financial service electronically.  
- Tangerine is chiefly online, no physical presence
- RBC is moving towards that as well
- CIBC teller-free

Creative thinking by FIs can improve efficiency, increase profits, but can also sometimes result in financial disasters.

## Financial Crises

This issue presented in Chapter 9 of textbook.  

__Financial crisis:__ major disruptions in financial markets  
- e.g. sharp declines in asset prices and failures of many financial and non-financial firms
- Typically followed by severe business cycle downturns

In August 2007, the US experienced a serious crisis.  
- Defaults in subprime residential mortgages
- Major losses in financial institutions, with many failing
- Canadian banks were affected as well, but not _as_ severely
	- Some say due to the fact that Canadian banks are more regulated relative to American banks

CDIC - insurance for your deposits.
- First $100,000 of deposits in your chequing or savings accounts are covered if the bank goes bankrupt

In US, they have the FDIC.

## Money and monetary policy

__Money__ is anything that is generally accepted as payment for goods or services, or to repay debts  

What are real dollars? Adjusted for inflation. Related to how many goods and services $100 dollars can get // CPI.

It affects a wide variety of other economic variables
- Business Cycles
- Inflation
- Interest Rates

Monetary policy used to influence the economy
- Central role of the _Bank of Canada_

## Money and Business Cycles

__Business cycles__ are the upward/downward movement of aggregate output in the economy  
Affects the __unemployment rate__  
Evidence suggests money plays an important role in generating business cycles  

Is it the money supply causing changes in the business cycle, or vice versa?

## Money and inflation

__Aggregate price level__ is the average price of goods and services in an economy  
__Inflation__ is a general increase in the price level  
- Inflation rate is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon
	- Too much money chasing too few goods
- Inflation rate strongly related to the growth rate of the money supply
	- True both within and across countries

One way of controlling inflation is to control the money supply.

## Money and interest rates

We don't distinguish real and nominal interest rates yet.  

An __interest rate__ is the cost of borrowing or the price paid for the rental and funds.  
Must compensate borrowers for expected inflation.  

Prior to 1980, the rate of money growth and interest rate on long-term bonds were closely tied. Since then, the relationship is less clear but still an important determinant of interest rates.

Refer to Figure 1-5.  
M1 is size of currency in circulation + chequing and deposits.  
M2 includes M1 plus 'near-money.'  
[Def'ns from Bank of Canada](https://www.bankofcanada.ca/rates/indicators/key-variables/monetary-aggregates/)

## Fiscal and monetary policy

__Monetary policy:__ money supply and interest rates.  
__Fiscal policy:__ gov't expenditures and taxes.  

## International finance

Globalization of financial markets has accelerated at a rapid pace in recent years.  
Financial institutions increasingly international  
e.g. Borrowing and lending across borders  

## Forex, The Market, and Rates

Forex market is where funds are converted from one currency into another.  
Xchange rates determined in market.  

## Additional resources

- CANSIM database
- FRED database
- Bank of Canada website
- MyEconLab