# Chapter 3  
[Lecture notes](https://learn.uwaterloo.ca/d2l/le/content/408644/viewContent/2303175/View)

## What is Money?

### Meaning of money
__Money:__ anything that is generally accepted in payment for goods or services or the repayment of debts.  
__Currency:__ paper money and coins  

Money is distinct from:  
__Wealth:__ the total collection of pieces of property that serve to store value  
__Income:__ a flow of earnings per unit of time

__Stock vs Flow:__  
Money is is a stock (certain amount at a given point in time), whereas income is a flow

## Mishkin: Stock vs Flow
A __stock__ is an accumulation of __flow__ over time.  
For example, deficit is flow and debt is stock.  

Is GDP stock or flow? GDP is flow, since it is in terms of over time.  
What about savings? Savings are flow, and the corresponding stock variable is wealth.

## Functions of Money

1. Medium of Exchange
2. Unit of Account
3. Store of Value

### 1 | Medium of Exchange
- Used to pay for goods and services
- Eliminates need for _double coincidence of wants_
- Facilitates exchange (lower transaction costs)
- Promotes efficiency

Contrast to a Barter Economy which requires double coincidence of wants  

An effective medium of exchange must:
- be easily standardized
- be widely accepted
- be divisible
- be easy to carry
- not deteriorate quickly

### 2 | Unit of Account
- used to measure value in an economy
- agreed measure for stating the prices of goods and services (Parkin and Bade)

Consider a barter economy with only 5 goods (say, pizza, soda, gum, coffee, and donuts)  
Without a unit of account, how many prices do we need to know to exchange one good for another?  
- We would need to know _10 prices_ to exchange one good for another

With a unit of account, we only need 5 prices as everything would be reported in _dollars_.  

With 10 goods, we would need 45 difference prices to exchange one good for another.  
With a unit of account, we only need 10 prices as everything would be reported in dollars.  
__Formula:__
$$
\frac{N(N-1)}{2}
$$

### 3 | Store of value
- it is a repository of purchasing power over time
- other assets also serve this function (stocks, bonds, land, houses, art, jewelry, ...)
- also, these other assets have advantages over money as a store of value in that they often pay an interest rate or experience price appreciation

So why do people hold money at all?  
- Liquidity
- Money is the most liquid of all assets but does not pay a return, so loses value during inflation
- Money is a particularly poor store of value during periods of __hyperinflation__, when inflation exceeds 50% per month.

## Evolution of the Payments System

__Payments System:__ method of conducting transactions in the economy  

### Commodity money
* Commodity money
	- the use of an actual good in place of money
	- rice, gold, silver, beans, cigarettes
* Intrinsic value
* Problem: hard to transport

### Fiat money
* Paper currency decreed by gov'ts as legal tender (meaning legally it must be accepted as payment for debts)

### Cheques
* An instruction to your bank to transfer money from your account to someone else's account
* Lowers transaction cost, but takes time to clear

### Electronic payments
* e-transfers

### Electronic money
* debit cards, smart cards, e-cash
* Wechat, Alipay
* BC

Are we reaching a cashless society?

## Measuring Money
* Bank of Canada's __Monetary Aggregates__
* __M1+__ = currency + chequable deposits at chartered banks, TMLs, and CUCPs

A broader definition of the money supply than M1+  
* __M2__ = M1+ + personal deposits at chartered banks + non-personal demand and notice deposits at chartered banks + fixed-term deposits
* __M2+__
* __M2++__
* __M3__

Refer to diagram in lecture notes (Figure 3-1).  

Note that deposits are money but cheques are not.  
What about credit cards? Are they money? No they aren't, since you're taking out a small loan every time you make a purchase.

Bank of Canada: Banking and Financial Statistics (look for link)  
- Which is the better measure of money (M1+, M2, M2+, ...)?
- Does it matter which measure of money is considered?

Aggregates can move in different directions in short run.  

Conclusion: the choice of monetary aggregate is important for policymakers.  

### Where are all the Dollars?
- There is almost $2000 of currency held per person in Canada and over $4000 of US currency per person in the US
- Do you know anyone who carries $2000 in their pockets?
- Where are all these dollars and who is holding them?
	- Foreigners
	- Criminals

_continuation on 2018-09-19:_  

### Money as a weighted aggregate
- The Bank of Canada money supply measures are simple-sum indices
	- i.e. equal weighting 

$$
M = x_1 + x_2 + x_3 + ... + x_n
$$

- This implies that all monetary components contribute equally and views all components as dollar-for-dollar perfect substitutes
- Weighted monetary aggregates seem to predict inflation and the business cycle somewhat better than the convention measures

### How reliable are the money data?
- Revisions issued because:
	- Small depository institutions report infrequently